Add ardupilot migration tutorial (#80)
ignitionrobotics/ign-gazebo: tutorials/migrating_ardupilot_plugin.md

\page ardupilot

[TOC]

# Case study: migrating the ArduPilot ModelPlugin from Classic Gazebo to Ignition Gazebo

A variety of changes are required when migrating a plugin from Gazebo Classic
("Gazebo") to Ignition Gazebo ("Ignition"). In this tutorial we offer as a case
study the migration of one particular `ModelPlugin`,
[ardupilot_gazebo](https://github.com/khancyr/ardupilot_gazebo). We hope that
this example provides useful tips to others who are migrating their existing
plugins from Gazebo to Ignition.

> The migrated version of the plugin that we're presenting here can be found in
> [this fork](https://github.com/gerkey/ardupilot_gazebo/tree/ignition). You can
> try building and running the migrated plugin in Ignition by following the
> [instructions in that
> fork](https://github.com/gerkey/ardupilot_gazebo/tree/ignition#using-with-ignition).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The complete, migrated version of the `ardupilot_gazebo` plugin covered in this tutorial 
can be found in [this fork](https://github.com/gerkey/ardupilot_gazebo/tree/ignition).
```
The changed wording of the first sentence is just for extra clarity (not necessary), but I definitely think the link to the building-and-running instructions in the next lines shouldn't be here

Author: Thanks, @maryaB-osr !

```

## Plugin source file (ArduPilotPlugin.cc)

### Headers

The old code includes these Gazebo-related headers:

```cpp
// OLD
#include <sdf/sdf.hh>
#include <ignition/math/Filter.hh>
#include <gazebo/common/Assert.hh>
#include <gazebo/common/Plugin.hh>
#include <gazebo/msgs/msgs.hh>
#include <gazebo/sensors/sensors.hh>
#include <gazebo/transport/transport.hh>
```

Like we did in `ArduPilotPlugin.hh`, we'll keep `<sdf/sdf.hh>`. The others are
replaced with Ignition equivalents, and where possible we narrow the inclusion
to exactly what we need. We start by enumerating those *components* (part of the
ECS pattern used by Ignition) that we're using:

```cpp
// NEW
#include <ignition/gazebo/components/AngularVelocity.hh>
#include <ignition/gazebo/components/Imu.hh>
#include <ignition/gazebo/components/JointForceCmd.hh>
#include <ignition/gazebo/components/JointPosition.hh>
#include <ignition/gazebo/components/JointVelocity.hh>
#include <ignition/gazebo/components/JointVelocityCmd.hh>
#include <ignition/gazebo/components/LinearVelocity.hh>
#include <ignition/gazebo/components/Name.hh>
#include <ignition/gazebo/components/Pose.hh>
```

> 
> Then we include the parts of `ign-gazebo` itself that we're using:

Reviewer 2: This is a very helpful contribution @gerkey, thanks! It will definitely be enlightening to many developers that will hopefully migrate their plugins to Ignition Gazebo. When I first started learning the new architecture, what puzzled me most was the structure of the ECM graph (what becomes an entity and what a component?). The turning point was when I found and read the `SdfEntityCreator` class, it is the most representative example of how the ECM is populated.

This is my 2 cents:

```suggestion

A great resource to understand the logic under-the-hood of the ECM is the `SdfEntityCreator` class ([header](https://github.com/ignitionrobotics/ign-gazebo/blob/master/include/ignition/gazebo/SdfEntityCreator.hh), [source](https://github.com/ignitionrobotics/ign-gazebo/blob/master/src/SdfEntityCreator.cc)). In fact, this class is responsible to map the content of a SDF file to the entities and components that form the graph handled by the ECM. If you wonder what are the components that you can access by default from the plugin, this class is the best entry point.

Then we include the parts of `ign-gazebo` itself that we're using:
```

Author: Thanks for the contribution, @diegoferigo!

plugin once for the entire model and the `ApplyJointForce` plugin once for each propeller joint:

```xml
<!-- NEW -->
<plugin
  filename="libignition-gazebo-joint-state-publisher-system.so"
  name="ignition::gazebo::systems::JointStatePublisher"></plugin>
<plugin
  filename="libignition-gazebo-apply-joint-force-system.so"
  name="ignition::gazebo::systems::ApplyJointForce">
  <joint_name>rotor_0_joint</joint_name>
</plugin>
<plugin
  filename="libignition-gazebo-apply-joint-force-system.so"
  name="ignition::gazebo::systems::ApplyJointForce">
  <joint_name>rotor_1_joint</joint_name>
</plugin>
<plugin
  filename="libignition-gazebo-apply-joint-force-system.so"
  name="ignition::gazebo::systems::ApplyJointForce">
  <joint_name>rotor_2_joint</joint_name>
</plugin>
<plugin
  filename="libignition-gazebo-apply-joint-force-system.so"
  name="ignition::gazebo::systems::ApplyJointForce">
  <joint_name>rotor_3_joint</joint_name>
</plugin>
```

## Building and running the plugin

Now that you're familiar with the changes required by the migration from Gazebo
to Ignition, you can try building and running the result of migration by
following [these

> instructions](https://github.com/gerkey/ardupilot_gazebo/tree/ignition#using-with-ignition).

Reviewer: This conclusion isn't really relevant (my mistake). I'd suggest making it clear that this is an aside from the main topic of migration, maybe like:

> If you were following along with the migration on your own fork of `ardupilot_gazebo` and would like to confirm that it does in fact now work on Ignition, you can build and run the result of the migration by following [these instructions](https://github.com/gerkey/ardupilot_gazebo/tree/ignition#using-with-ignition) (cloning your own repo in step 4)

Feels a little complicated though, especially for something most people wouldn't be doing anyway. Otherwise I'd suggest just removing any mention of building and running completely and say something like:

> You should be able to apply the same general changes covered in this tutorial to your Gazebo plugins to migrate them to Ignition.
>
> Check out [these instructions](https://github.com/gerkey/ardupilot_gazebo/tree/ignition#using-with-ignition) if you'd like to learn more about using `ardupilot_gazebo` with Ignition.

Just to mark a clear ending.

Author: Good idea. Done in 85f187a0eccfe18ca00b554dea30525667bef6ad
